Welcome. This week I
will talk about long,
short-term memory cells,
which we call LSTMs.
To understand why
they're important,
let me explain the
vanishing and exploding
gradients problems faced by
conventional RNNs.
Let's dive in.
First, I'll talk about
backpropagation through time.
Then I'll introduce you to
vanishing and
exploding gradients.
A problem common to
RNNs and I'll show you a
few ways to handle them.
Let's begin with a
discussion of some of
the pros and cons of using
a recurrent neural network.
For one.
The way lane or vanilla
RNNs model sequences work
is by recalling information
from the immediate past,
allowing you to capture
dependencies to a certain degree.
They're also
relatively lightweight
compared to the
other n-gram models,
taking up less space and RAM.
But there are downsides.
The RNNs architecture
can struggle to capture
long-term dependencies and RNNs
are prone to vanishing
and exploding gradients,
both of which can cause your
model training to fail.
Vanishing and exploding
gradients are
a problem that can arise
due to the fact that
it's RNNs propagates information
from the beginning of
the sequence to the end,
starting with the first
word or the sequence,
the hidden value
at the far left.
The first values
are computed here.
Then as propagates, some of
the computed information,
takes the second word in
the sequence and
gets new values.
You can see that process
illustrated here.
The orange area denotes
the first computed values,
and the green denotes
the second word.
The second values
are computed using
the older values in orange
and then word in green.
After that, it takes
the third word and
the propagated values
from the first second words and
computes and other sets of
values from both of those.
It continues and a
similar way from there.
At the final step,
the computations
contain information from
all the words in the sequence
and the RNN is able to
predict the next word,
which in this example is goal.
Note that in an RNN,
the information
from the first step
doesn't have much
influence on the outputs.
This is why you can see
the orange portion from
the first step decreasing
with each new step.
Correspondingly, the
computations made at
the first step don't have
much influence on the
cost function either.
The gradients are calculated
using backpropagation
through time,
which sounds way more scary
than what it really is.
As it would simple
backpropagation.
You just have to apply the
chain rule multiple times.
Recall that the weights
W_h and W_x are the
same for each step.
Let's focus on the weights W_h.
Noting that everything
that I'll present to
you also applies to W_x,
with the loss being computed
at the T step sequence.
The gradient with respect to
W_h would depend on
the computations that are
made this every step.
In fact, it is
proportional to the sum
of products of hidden
states, partial derivatives.
This relationship can
be found by applying
the chain rule and the use
of a couple of tricks.
But you don't need to worry
about the derivation as
much as the implications
behind this formula.
Let's take a closer look at it.
The term inside the sum,
the products of
partial derivatives
is the contribution
of hidden states k,
so the gradient
and the length of
the product sequence for
each k is proportional
to how far
the step k is from the place
where the loss is
computed in this
step t. As you look
at hidden states that
are further away
from the place where
you're loss is computed,
the partial derivative products
start to become
longer and longer.
For instance, the contribution
to the gradient of
a hidden state that is 10
steps away from step t,
you would have to compute
a product of 10 terms.
Therefore, if the partial
derivatives are lower than one,
the contribution of
the hidden state
to the gradients approaches
zero as you move further
away from the place where
the loss is computed.
Conversely, if the
partial derivatives
are greater than one,
the contribution to the
gradient goes to infinity.
The first case is known as
the vanishing gradients
and its causes the RNN
to ignore the values
computed at early steps
of a sequence while
the second case is known
as exploding gradients,
which causes convergence
problems during training.
Now that you're terrified of
vanishing and
exploding gradients,
let's discuss some solutions.
I won't spend a whole
lot of time on this,
since this week focuses on
the model approach that was
designed to mitigate
this problem.
You can deal with
vanishing gradients by
initializing your weights
to the identity matrix,
which carries values of one
along the main diagonal
and zero everywhere else.
Using a ReLU activation.
What this essentially does is
copy the previous
hidden states and
information from
the current inputs
and replace any negative
values with zero.
This has the effect of
encouraging your network to
stay close to the values
and the identity matrix,
which act like ones during
matrix multiplication.
This method is referred to
unsurprisingly as
an identity RNN.
The identity RNN approach
only works for vanishing
gradients though,
as a derivative of ReLU is equal
to 1 for all values
greater than zero.
To account for values growing
exponentially you can
perform gradients clipping.
To clip your gradient,
simply choose a
relevant value that you
would clip the
gradient to, say 25.
Using this technique, any value
greater than 25 will
be clipped to 25.
This serves to limit the
magnitude of the gradient.
Finally skip connections provide
a direct connection to
the earlier layers.
This effectively skips over
the activation functions
and adds the value from
your initial inputs x to you're
outputs or f of x plus x.
This way, activations from
early layers have more
influence over the costs.
Now you understand
how RNNs can have
a problem with
vanishing gradients.
Next, I'll show you a
solution, the LSTM.
Let's go to the next video.